(Slip Opinion) 

OCTOBER  TERM,  2024 

1 

Syllabus 

NOTE:  Where  it  is  feasible,  a  syllabus  (headnote)  will  be  released,  as  is 
being  done  in  connection  with  this  case,  at  the  time  the  opinion  is  issued. 
The  syllabus  constitutes  no  part  of  the  opinion  of  the  Court  but  has  been 
prepared  by  the  Reporter  of  Decisions  for  the  convenience  of  the  reader. 
See United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 337. 

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 

Syllabus 

UNITED STATES v. SKRMETTI, ATTORNEY GENERAL 
AND REPORTER FOR TENNESSEE, ET AL. 

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR 
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT 

No. 23–477.  Argued December 4, 2024—Decided June 18, 2025 

In 2023, Tennessee joined the growing number of States restricting sex 
transition treatments for minors by enacting the Prohibition on Medi-
cal Procedures Performed on Minors Related to Sexual Identity, Sen-
ate Bill 1 (SB1).  SB1 prohibits healthcare providers from prescribing, 
administering, or dispensing puberty blockers or hormones to any mi-
nor for the purpose of (1) enabling the minor to identify with, or live
as, a purported identity inconsistent with the minor’s biological sex, or
(2)  treating  purported  discomfort  or  distress  from  a  discordance  be-
tween  the  minor’s  biological  sex  and  asserted  identity.    At  the  same 
time, SB1 permits a healthcare provider to administer puberty block-
ers  or  hormones  to  treat  a  minor’s  congenital  defect,  precocious  pu-
berty, disease, or physical injury.  

Three  transgender  minors,  their  parents,  and  a  doctor  challenged 
SB1 under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The  District  Court  partially  enjoined  SB1,  finding  that  transgender
individuals constitute a quasi-suspect class, that SB1 discriminates on 
the basis of sex and transgender status, and that SB1 was unlikely to
survive  intermediate  scrutiny.    The  Sixth  Circuit  reversed,  holding
that the law did not trigger heightened scrutiny and satisfied rational 
basis review.  This Court granted certiorari to decide whether SB1 vi-
olates the Equal Protection Clause. 

Held: Tennessee’s  law  prohibiting  certain  medical  treatments  for
transgender  minors  is  not  subject  to  heightened  scrutiny  under  the 
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and satisfies 
rational basis review.  Pp. 8–24.

(a) SB1 is not subject to heightened scrutiny because it does not clas-

sify on any bases that warrant heightened review.  Pp. 9–21. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
