Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Weekly / Vol. 73 / No. 41 Oct ober 17, 2024
INSIDE
917 Tobacco Product Use Among Middle and High 
School Students — National Youth Tobacco Survey, 
United States, 2024
925 Coverage with Selected Vaccines and Exemption 
Rates Among Children in Kindergarten — United 
States, 2023–24 School Year
933 Notes from the Field: Enhanced Surveillance for 
Raccoon Rabies Virus Variant and Vaccination of 
Wildlife for Management — Omaha, Nebraska, 
October 2023–July 2024 
936 QuickStats
Continuing Education examination available at  
https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/mmwr_continuingEducation.html
Update on Vaccine-Derived Poliovirus Outbreaks —  
Worldwide, January 2023–June 2024
Apophia Namageyo-Funa, PhD1; Sharon A. Greene, PhD1; Elizabeth Henderson2; Mohamed A. T raoré3; Shahzad Shaukat, PhD3; John Paul Bigouette, PhD1; 
Jaume Jorba, PhD2; Eric Wiesen, DrPH1; Omotayo Bolu, PhD1; Ousmane M. Diop, PhD3; Cara C. Burns, PhD2; Steven G.F . Wassilak, MD1
Abstract
Circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses (cVDPVs) can 
emerge and lead to outbreaks of paralytic polio as well as 
asymptomatic transmission in communities with a high percent-
age of undervaccinated children. Using data from the World 
Health Organization Polio Information System and Global 
Polio Laboratory Network, this report describes global polio 
outbreaks due to cVDPVs during January 2023–June 2024 
and updates previous reports. During the reporting period, 
74 cVDPV outbreaks were detected in 39 countries or areas 
(countries), predominantly in Africa. Among these 74 cVDPV 
outbreaks, 47 (64%) were new outbreaks, detected in 30 (77%) 
of the 39 countries. Three countries reported cVDPV type 1 
(cVDPV1) outbreaks and 38 countries reported cVDPV type 
2 (cVDPV2) outbreaks; two of these countries reported cocir-
culating cVDPV1 and cVDPV2. In the 38 countries with 
cVDPV2 transmission, 70 distinct outbreaks were reported. 
In 15 countries, cVDPV transmission has lasted >1 year into 
2024. In Nigeria and Somalia, both countries with security-
compromised areas, persistent cVDPV2 transmission has spread 
to neighboring countries. Delayed implementation of outbreak 
response campaigns and low-quality campaigns have resulted in 
further international spread. Countries can control cVDPV out-
breaks with timely allocation of resources to implement prompt, 
high-quality responses after outbreak confirmation. Stopping all 
cVDPV transmission requires effectively increasing population 
immunity by overcoming barriers to reaching children.
Introduction
Live, attenuated oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) induces 
long-term protection against paralytic disease, and limits virus 
shedding in vaccinated persons with infection (1). Circulating 
vaccine-derived poliovirus (cVDPVs)* outbreaks occur when 
OPV-related strains undergo prolonged circulation in com -
munities with very low immunity against polioviruses, and the 
genetically reverted virus has regained neurovirulence (vaccine-
derived poliovirus [VDPV] emergence) (2,3). After declaration 
of wild poliovirus type 2 eradication in 2015, and in an effort 
to lower the risk for cVDPV type 2 (cVDPV2) outbreaks, 
immunization programs in countries using OPV switched 
from using trivalent OPV (tOPV) (containing types 1, 2, and 
3 Sabin strains) in routine and supplementary immunization 
activities (SIAs) to bivalent OPV (bOPV) (containing types 1 
* By genomic sequence analysis of the region encoding capsid viral protein 1, a 
poliovirus with >1% divergence from the parent Sabin strain for serotypes 1 
and 3, or >0.6% for serotype 2, is classified as a vaccine-derived poliovirus 
(VDPV). Evidence of circulation (i.e., a cVDPV outbreak) occurs when two 
or more independent detections of genetically linked VDPVs are identified 
through acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) surveillance, environmental surveillance 
(ES), or from healthy community members.