U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
Weekly / Vol. 73 / No. 41 October 17, 2024
Update on Vaccine-Derived Poliovirus Outbreaks —
Worldwide, January 2023–June 2024
Apophia Namageyo-Funa, PhD1; Sharon A. Greene, PhD1; Elizabeth Henderson2; Mohamed A. Traoré3; Shahzad Shaukat, PhD3; John Paul Bigouette, PhD1;
Jaume Jorba, PhD2; Eric Wiesen, DrPH1; Omotayo Bolu, PhD1; Ousmane M. Diop, PhD3; Cara C. Burns, PhD2; Steven G.F. Wassilak, MD1
Abstract vaccine-derived poliovirus (cVDPVs)* outbreaks occur when
Circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses (cVDPVs) can OPV-related strains undergo prolonged circulation in com-
emerge and lead to outbreaks of paralytic polio as well as munities with very low immunity against polioviruses, and the
asymptomatic transmission in communities with a high percent- genetically reverted virus has regained neurovirulence (vaccine-
age of undervaccinated children. Using data from the World derived poliovirus [VDPV] emergence) (2,3). After declaration
Health Organization Polio Information System and Global of wild poliovirus type 2 eradication in 2015, and in an effort
Polio Laboratory Network, this report describes global polio to lower the risk for cVDPV type 2 (cVDPV2) outbreaks,
outbreaks due to cVDPVs during January 2023–June 2024 immunization programs in countries using OPV switched
and updates previous reports. During the reporting period, from using trivalent OPV (tOPV) (containing types 1, 2, and
74 cVDPV outbreaks were detected in 39 countries or areas 3 Sabin strains) in routine and supplementary immunization
(countries), predominantly in Africa. Among these 74 cVDPV activities (SIAs) to bivalent OPV (bOPV) (containing types 1
outbreaks, 47 (64%) were new outbreaks, detected in 30 (77%)
* By genomic sequence analysis of the region encoding capsid viral protein 1, a
of the 39 countries. Three countries reported cVDPV type 1 poliovirus with >1% divergence from the parent Sabin strain for serotypes 1
(cVDPV1) outbreaks and 38 countries reported cVDPV type and 3, or >0.6% for serotype 2, is classified as a vaccine-derived poliovirus
(VDPV). Evidence of circulation (i.e., a cVDPV outbreak) occurs when two
2 (cVDPV2) outbreaks; two of these countries reported cocir-
or more independent detections of genetically linked VDPVs are identified
culating cVDPV1 and cVDPV2. In the 38 countries with through acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) surveillance, environmental surveillance
cVDPV2 transmission, 70 distinct outbreaks were reported. (ES), or from healthy community members.
In 15 countries, cVDPV transmission has lasted >1 year into
2024. In Nigeria and Somalia, both countries with security- INSIDE
compromised areas, persistent cVDPV2 transmission has spread
917 Tobacco Product Use Among Middle and High
to neighboring countries. Delayed implementation of outbreak
School Students — National Youth Tobacco Survey,
response campaigns and low-quality campaigns have resulted in
United States, 2024
further international spread. Countries can control cVDPV out-
925 Coverage with Selected Vaccines and Exemption
breaks with timely allocation of resources to implement prompt, Rates Among Children in Kindergarten — United
high-quality responses after outbreak confirmation. Stopping all States, 2023–24 School Year
cVDPV transmission requires effectively increasing population 933 Notes from the Field: Enhanced Surveillance for
immunity by overcoming barriers to reaching children. Raccoon Rabies Virus Variant and Vaccination of
Wildlife for Management — Omaha, Nebraska,
Introduction October 2023–July 2024
Live, attenuated oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) induces 936 QuickStats
long-term protection against paralytic disease, and limits virus
shedding in vaccinated persons with infection (1). Circulating
Continuing Education examination available at
https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/mmwr_continuingEducation.html